how much should we spend and so I get
asked question all time I actually have
a very specific number so I tell
companies all the time 10% that's the
number you have 10% of your Revenue that
you can spend on all things post sales I
can debate what's in there or not in
terms of the menu we talked about but
ultimately if you're going to run a
business that can raise money
effectively that is Rule of 40 that can
go public whatever scale you're looking
at if you're spending more than 10% you
better have a damn good reason for why
you're doing it you have to be growing
much faster than your peers the quality
of of what you're generating as leads
from cesta Drive sales has to be strong
for all the things have to be better if
you're above that number
hello hi everyone it's exciting to have
everyone here I see we have a big crowd
I see a lot of familiar faces in the
room as
well it's great to great to see you here
I figur we probably should start a
little bit of a introduction around how
we know each other we're from two
different companies but actually Erica
hired me at GitHub and we had a unique
first day experience I would say so a
couple of fun facts I want to share so
first of all Erica did hire me at GitHub
but we've never met in real life this is
actually the first time they're meeting
here on stage which is very strange also
we had a very unique first day I'll
provide my take on it and I'll let her
provide her
take I started it at GitHub in January
of last year very excited to join the
team this is just after co- follower
announc is log the io super psyched on
my first day my very first meeting with
Erica Erica said boss I have some news
and I was like okay that's interesting
let's start with some news and she said
B I'm leaving GitHub so that's my very
first day at uh at GitHub and it went
from there Erica does that sound right
to you it sounds very right I was in a
very long C for a boss and was very
excited to bring him to get um but yes
that is definitely what happened on his
very first day which I'd never had that
happen before I'd been at get up for 10
years so that was very unique but look
at us we're very well bonded today we're
good enough now I will say there was a
Temptation my part say I've been playing
the long games and my goal was to get
her on stage here and I was just going
to get up and walk away and be like
let's see how you like it
that was part of the original plan we
did decide that however we resolved
those particular challenges and now
we're friends we can hang out and have a
conversation around all things customer
success and that's really what we wanted
to do today is really have a pretty Fen
conversation around a few different
customer success topics starting with
some really easy ones like what are all
the teams that go into a customer
success organization your saely yes
there's many and I think it evolves over
time as your company's growing in your
circumstances but across my most recent
company Journeys obviously you have
customer success proper like the
customer success managers Professional
Services your customer experience team
you can have more technical roles
renewals count
managers but definitely an evolution for
example a GitHub from a customer success
perspective we started with Prof
Services actually and support and then
evolve from there at notion it's a
relatively we've gotten built out teams
and more roles than like the GitHub
Journey which has been
interesting yeah I think I think it is
interesting choice of options you have
when to building your team and actually
a fun story here is around the origin of
a customer success organization so I
think for companies at earlier stages I
think it's really important to write
those things down somewhere because at
some point someone's going to ask you
saying
what how did customer success start on
your team and it'll be like we started
with support or services or csms it's
depending on what your business need it
can vary and actually it's a pretty long
list and in fact I try to keep this list
in my head as I go through and talk to
different CS leaders I've probably had
this conversation with a number of you
on here and so there's like a menu and
is you get on Support Services you
talked about some people think about
training is a separate function you have
Tams you have renewals account manager
customer experience engineering and the
scope determines the leaders you need
the functions you have the Roes it just
varies based on business and the
complexity of the product that is
certainly a very common pattern to look
at it also is a pattern of growth over
CS over time right your CS4 I'm sure you
saw it the Bol over GI right like saided
small group from there and you're seeing
it evolved right now with notion yeah
it's interesting I think you want to
match it to what you're literally trying
to do for customers and obviously that
be the starting point at GitHub as I
mentioned the big need was how do you
get people onto a sofware development
platform and that's why Professional
Services was the orientation at the
start at
notion support obviously like technical
support was an underpinning but customer
success was early because notion is a
wonderful product but there is a
learning curve and how you onboard
customers the product and actually hands
on support from a customer success
management perspective was really
important and now notion we're in the
Journey of now layering on Professional
Services flaring on renewals and that's
like the present day Journey that we're
on and that's all an evolution of what
do we need to meet the needs of
customers plus what the business is
doing from like a performance
perspective that's great speaking of
onboarding on the notion I think there's
probably a few people here maybe who are
notion users we should do that as a Qui
full here is a notion user okay okay
thank you there you go afterwards I will
take any customer feedback I love to
chat with users I actually do that a
couple user chats every week which is so
insightful for my role in particular
that's right ultimately I guess the cro
is the ultimate C is that fair statement
that's true it all comes down that way
another common question that comes off
all time I'm sure you hear about it from
people reaching out to you seeking your
expertise as well as in your operator
role itself what is the right level of
investment into
CS from investment you can look at it
purly like the dollars you want to
spend sometimes you can look at it as
percentage of
ARR Professional Services you've got
different ways you want to look at that
investment so that's one way I can talk
about I know if a has got good insights
on the percentage of investment and how
he thinks about that I then also think
about it in terms of invest m in the
different areas of how we want to
support
customers what's the like dedicated
Hands-On support that we need to provide
to customers what's like the way in
which we can cool resources and
investment and a way to reach customers
and then how are we investing digitally
so that's the other way I also think
about it and that's dependent on
different areas of the business and
what's the level of touch and experience
so I look at the two vectors like the
pure numbers way and then what's the
models we need to have to support the
business um across all the different
functions you saw earlier slide of the
different roles you can have as for
customer success I think the functional
piece is really interesting right
because you can think about the customer
journey is really driving that forget
the numbers right ultimately if our
business if we're not s if we're not
doing a great job making our customer
successful like the numbers stop to
matter right you don't have a business
essentially right like having the
customer journey to math out and really
thinking about the functional things
that you need is really important right
this is something that we saw at GitHub
with adding in the layers it's something
they're choosing to add into on on the
notion side as well for my standpoint I
very commonly get asked a question I'm
sure a number of you do here as well is
like how much should we spend ultimately
a lot of folks who are here at this
event are Business Leaders within their
organizations and so I get asked
question all time and so for those
who've inter with me before you'll know
that I have no shortage of opinions and
I'm also not shy about sharing them I
actually have a very specific number so
I tell companies all the time 10% that's
the number you have 10% of your Revenue
that you can spend on all things post
sales I can debate what's in there or
not in terms of the menu we talked about
but ultimately if you're going to run a
business that can raise money
effectively that is Rule of 40 that can
go public whatever scale you're looking
at if you're spending more than 10% you
better have a damn good good reason for
why you're doing it you have to be
growing much faster than your peers your
the quality of of what you're generating
as leads from CS to drive sales has to
be strong all the things have to be
better if you're above that number and
the more you can monetize right the
conversation we talk about Professional
Services you monetize and lose a little
money but then eventually start catching
up death protects that 10% for new
things you want to do so you can pull
functions in and generally build a more
sustainable business finally for s
leaders this is a number that you should
have on your T-shirt so actually I'll
ask this the question if on this spot if
someone came to you and said how much do
you spend of your revenue on customer
success how many of you have that number
right at the tip of your right your
fingertips Swit raise of hands so taking
a look around that was about 15 hands
maybe a fast and I know there's way more
customer success leaders here in this
room and so as Business Leaders as you
look to mature from growing in the
customer success discipline that's a
number that you have to know inside of
and if you're really strong perspective
on the ROI of that so going back to the
pieces we talked about before you have
to know what is actually going to to
what are you actually delivering for I
I'd also add know it by the breakdown of
your different functions right customer
experience for example at notion which
is the support organization we track
that month by month right and right now
our goal is
3.9% of ARR for example and that's and I
encourage exactly what a boss was saying
but even for every function so you know
the breakdown and you know where you're
getting your optimizations and where
you're read redeploying those dollars
yeah speaking of since you gave the
number and you're tracking it I am
curious what are your thoughts on
measuring customer success right how how
do you what are the kpis how do you
actually measure that customer success
is
working the age old question I can share
of how we measure it at no right now in
terms of adoption metric and revenue
expansion and I I'm a Believer in both
and I can talk about that but I'd also
say that I'm very tuned to metrics at
the very beginning of a customer's
journey and that's something at notion
that we spent a lot of time working on
for the product itself and what we need
to make customer successful like the
onboarding is a really critical piece of
a customer Journey especially at notion
and so that's a place where we spend a
lot of time coming up with those metrics
and that to me is a really important
indicator of what's woring and that's at
the earliest part of the journey so for
example for notion a metric is
Integrations that a customer is enabled
for example so it's not just the usage
and what you're seeing but it's some of
these other tangal is that you
understand that someone's getting off on
the right foot and they're going to be
successful long term with your product
so Integrations is an
example we've also been looking at how
do you define even in the first 90 days
the onboarding journey how someone
becomes a more advanced user right so
for notion it's can you see their
database usage and editing and so I'm
super interested in the early as part of
the journey to understand how we're
predicting the longer term Su ultimately
the kpis kind of at the far end we look
at what's the monthly actives right in
terms of next quarter renewal so that's
the vantage point we take so in the next
quarter what's monthly actives we want
to see that at a certain percentage and
then also what's our nrr effectively how
are we contributing to the growth of a
customer role yeah I think that's great
and I think you hit on a couple of key
points there first of all being that you
know focus on the lagging indicators I
think very commonly when people fif kpi
for customer success teams people
quickly throw up grr nrr like those are
my numbers I'm like that's cool but
that's you know if you're driving by
looking in the rear view mirror you the
right set of leading indicators looking
for activity onboarding velocity those
dermal usage over time you increasing
level of death of of adoption those are
the things that tell you that you're
doing all the right stuff and I think
that's the right way to think about it
in terms of kpis on the GitHub side I
remember when I joined was funny I was
like I joined Erica said she was eating
some I guess I'm not totally over you
bringing it up every little while um
rubbing just a little bit so basically I
joined I was like Hey like where are my
like kpis and actually life LM
organizations of majority of them were
focused on the the liy indicators and so
one of my first activities as joining a
new team was going through and sitting
down with the leaders in customer
success which at GitHub is fresh
Services support csms I have an
engineering team that reports to me a
strategy organization and sitting down
and saying so what are all of the kpis
how do we know that we're okay based on
we've done historically that's our
lagging indicators and what tells us
we're going to be okay next month next
quarter for the next year and actually
doing that is an interesting exercise if
you join GitHub today in the customer
success team one of the things you get
access to is a document that I started
in my first 30 days and describe it as
my fever dream document of 30 pages of
tpis and I was like we should pick
something out of this and now it's a
contributed document from everybody it's
50 pages of missions unique values kpis
leading and lagging indicators for every
single function that we review on a
monthly basis and I think that's really
important you mentioned you look at it
every single week yeah it's not kpis for
the sake of vanity right I I I love set
up there and be like look at all these
great numbers I'm so excited but that's
not the point actually uh in the
business reviews we commonly and I think
you've done something similar is I don't
want to talk about the green right the
green means that we put the right
Targets in place and we're happy with
them I only actually want to talk about
the yellow and the red and if there's no
yellow or red I it makes me really
uncomfortable I get super paranoid
because we should be like doing we
should be pushing enough where some
things are hovering in the danger zone
right and if we're not being aggressive
enough in all things in our business
whether it's customer acquisition
pipeline revenue and customer success
like all the things have to actually be
slight slightly on the edge otherwise
you're just not trying hard enough the
other topic I did want to talk a little
bit about here was there is always a
little tension between cost cheap cost
for offers and cro especially when they
leave them hanging on their first day
that tension definitely exists on those
things and as we talk about those sorts
of friction
points what are the off say what's a
signal that tells you that magic is
happening between the organizations and
really how is what's Magic happening in
the broadest picture of customer success
yeah I think internally magic is
happening I think it's
around does everybody know where they
fit in the customer journey in terms of
there's a lot of people that interact
with customers and deliver customer
experience and does everybody have an
understanding of what they're doing
doing and is that aligned across the
organization are you building on that
momentum versus overlapping on how
you're helping drive that journey and
then how do you share the success of
what's Happening across those teams and
where you're improving and where you
have opportunity to do more to push the
envelope so I'd say those are things
that stick out internally I think
externally about a month ago we had like
a magic experience from an external
perspective
where a customer of notion that was
recently onboarded to using the product
wall toall at their company the CEO of
the company went on LinkedIn and just
posted this has nothing to do with
notion I just want to share how amazing
this journey has been to get on this
product and the adoption at the company
has been so amazing to see and wall
toall and people are so highly engaged
and that will probably be a m that never
leaves me that like externally we made
magic happen because there was no
conversation that happened with us at
all someone a CEO took the time to write
that up and to recognize the company and
the team so that to me is Magic from an
external perspective there's no
validation like customer validation when
it comes to these things and definitely
that that little screenshot from
LinkedIn goes into that csn's brag
document for a review season right it's
like definitely remember this ER for 20
years if I if I was a CSM I'd use that
that definitely shows up every time you
have an interview question WR those
things but there's lots of outs right
you talked about the clarity of roles
accountability for the team The Joint
recognition that the teams show up
together I think a little bit of this is
also about the mutual respect of
everyone knowing that you trust each
other in the game what one analogy I use
like we don't always talk about customer
Obsession it's a big part of every
organization that is really focused on
delivering value but sometimes customer
Obsession can turn creepy is how I think
about it right imagine your entire
Revenue organization you're always in
everything for the customer at the same
time it's like one of them and four of
you in every meeting that is creepy
right that is a wrong side of obsession
on the customer side so having those
line set up where you know what you're
all doing then you have a Common
Language by which you talk about
different stages of customer life cycle
there's no sales framework that's pre
and post sale if you decide WF station
is med pit every when speaks a language
or Mythic whatever you pick it's common
and then the thing that I've always
loved is this idea of like leadership
interchangeability can you walk in the
shoes of your Revenue peers right so as
a CS leader can you actually drive a
sales forecast go if you're a if you're
a sales leader can you run a risk review
meeting as well as your peers if you do
that sends an incredible signal for
magic happening within your organization
itself so those are some of the things
that I look at and of course the
ultimate one is always the customer
stories right I I every time a customer
posts about GitHub on LinkedIn and uh
someone likes it I'm like yep that's a
screenshot that's going in this view
unsolicited public uh public praise from
a customer nothing quite Feats that
let's switch your lightning R is that
right so some hot takes okay all right
here we go first one customer success
monetize for not
monetize yes or no that's all you got
there's different parts of that okay
yeah yes yes monetize yes yes monetize
yes that's good it maximizes that 10%
invest when you brought right what about
Professional Services positive modate
margin contribution yes or
no the fies yes and no it shifts over
time
ultimately I would love that to be yes
okay no to a yes okay I'll take that is
no a yes that's good it's a journey I'm
going to keep asking the weird questions
are require 10 minutes to answer support
monetize yes or no yes I like that one
very good customers always are willing
to pay to be front of line for support
so that always no one let if someone
says VIP will you pay for the fast of
course you'll pay for the VIP path
that's always how it works this is an
interesting one teams go through model
customer success teams have this mode
where through offering a GM mode where
different GEOS and stuff are grouped
together as a pod of all the revenue
functions sort of pod structure versus a
functional structure where all of Cs is
together all sales is together which way
do you like it I like both it's
dependent on what you're trying to do so
you know for example at GitHub it was a
functional structure y still is still it
still is yes at notion for in a pod
structure and a GM structure I think
it's dependent on your where you're at
in terms of growth what are you trying
to accomplish so I think that's right I
think it s be a pendulum just go from
one to the other yeah that's true last
question we right right at time pretty
much so obviously we had a fun first day
we never got me in real life until
today do we call and text more host
GitHub or while we actually had
overlapping host
GitHub see a valuable life less and safe
uh traumatic experiences so can allow
friendships to be formed um and so that
basically I think that wraps up topics
that I wanted to cover to make sure we
stay on track from a scheduling
perspective Erica thank you so much for
joining C CC relationship super
important to make a business scale thank
you for for coming out here and thank
you all for for joining us for the
session thank you